Meeting Agenda for OpenOakland Executive Team

**Meeting Date: May 5 2015, 7-9pm**

**Location: Hearing Room 4, City Hall**

Roll call: Bobby, Ronald, Deep, Phil, Tony, Neil, Ellie, Spike

Absent: Tonya, Tariq, Eddie, April 

Guest: Joseph 

Notes: Phil

Started at 7:15

**Decision Log**

* Deep to conduct audit of our technology stack.

* Neil and Tarik to work with Deep to develop comprehensive volunteer team workplan and linkage with tech interface/data system.

* Committed to participating in NDOC - Ellie T as lead with Ronald and Deep as co-leads. Commitment to theme, core details by Friday 15th.

* Revisit 501c3 process in Q3.

* Exec to now meet every two weeks, on the 2nd and 4th Tuesdays of the month, from 8-9pm to avoid serious disruption to hack nights.

* Review Events lead role after NDOC and consider new role, current role or committee.

**Next Steps**

* Ronald to deliver workplan by end of week

* All exec teams to submit final draft of workplans by end of week.

* Partnerships team + ED to develop parameters for what is required in a partnership.

* Spike + Deep to meet and clean/organize shared google drive.

* Spike to coordinate mtg re Adam stepping down, issues leading to this.

* Spike to submit final proposal/contract to OUSD once MOU agreed to.

## Team Updates 

Deep - technologies

* Bridge Troll for Deliverables management.

    * Next: install on heroku and brand 

* Spreadsheet of tools we use

* Training program - code workshops

* Audit OO technologies

* Add value to the volunteer onboarding process

Ronald - projects

* TBD

Neil - volunteers 

* Focusing on first-night orientation (the "golden hour"), adding a bit more structure 

* Roster for data collection may be incorporated into Tariq’s people/projects app

* Spike: let’s have Neil, Tariq, and Deep design their workplan for this

* Tony: one place for the data

* Ronald: noting that Tariq and Neil are co-directors with intertwined duties and work 

Phil - marketing

/handbook

* [http://openoakland.org/handbook/](http://openoakland.org/handbook/)

* a place for man pages and tool-links on OO.org

* now has links for filing project status, style guide, etc. 

OpenCalifornia - Open Disclosure California (ODCA)

* Didn't get big Knight grant; going for small grant. 

* Continuing. Weekly Saturday sprints at CfA HQ.

* Focus: Back-end ETL/direct data engine. UX design. Partner/ally strategy.

* Open concerns: governance, recruiting new member orgs, staffing up.

Membership vs. Fuzzy Volunteer

* Goal: start discussion. affect on retention? on recruiting?

* Straw man: You join, never leave, membership votes on highpri issues and elects exec team

* By/for the members.

Bobby - Partnerships

* Working on the work plan 

    * Partnership goals

    * Vetting partnerships - how to?

    * Figuring out how information is shared across domains 

    * How best to rope in the partner team to other activities  

* Tonya: 

    * Letter to the exec team 

    * "Contact both of us" 

* tony: we need to do better at communicating between the exec team and the membership 

* Spike: workplans are part of helping us work together

* Ellie: these docs will come to represent our experience and institutional knowledge 

Ellie and Tony  - Fundraising / Development

* Workplan is published on the drive

        * Grantsmanship to reach $250k

        * sustainable infrastructure to support that

    * Tracks for institutional/foundation and individual fundraising 

    * Events with fees for service 

    * Expect this is a grant-heavy year

    * Craft an inventory of potential grantors 

* National Day of Civic Hacking: Open House or Demo Day as a fundraiser; invite investors

* Continuing to work on the impact report, collateral, and development site 

* Haven’t heard about Living Cities and Fast Forward grants

Spike - captain

* Workplan - Strategic Plan. 

* Signed off on CfA’s charter - "we’re part of the brigade network" and “we won’t embarrass them” 

* Tony: we should revisit incorporating ourselves; without it, we’re hobbling fundraising 

* Vaya’s Nicole Sanchez now the Sr. VP for Github; our contract for Nicole’s management support is about half-way complete; not clear if she will be able to finish. Not quickly replaced.

* We now have Google Adwords. We can now add these for our projects/events. $300/

* Spike wants someone to help with the org design / work plans. Deep raised his hand.    

Bobby: Feedback mechanism for sharing workplans and feedback on them

## Project reports - 

Open Disclosure - Still no manager; work being shared by Elina, Tom, with John coordinating with OpenCalifornia

Open Budget - Adam chose to step down as project manager; Calvin being invited to step up. Spike to convene an offline after-action review of Adam’s departure; Spike will report back to the exec team. 

OUSD  - MOU sent last week. Haven’t heard. The two people identified to do the contract work, Chris Christina and , should still be available even if the district takes another few weeks to . 

Open Housing - Still researching the subject. 

OAK72 - Many random non-code tasks emerging. Recruiting needed for the special skills needed. Arena Reed is leading this. 

## Events and Branding

* Biz cards - Wednesday 

* Logo update - one word

* Rebrand rollout plan.

* Trello board[ https://trello.com/b/if0i0ch3](https://trello.com/b/if0i0ch3)

* Plan: Find things to change, prepare for each thing, deploy, quietly announce

* June 1 go live

* needs: help with existing brand/logo inventory + current contacts for each team

* Big launch convo - Development, Marketing, Partnerships 

NDOCH - National Day of Civic Hacking - 6 June 

Spike: 

* Challenge: Events doesn’t have a committee or leader and there’s demand for this.  

* Three strategies:

    * Marketing or Partnerships will take on Events as their responsibility, event captain

    * Commission an Events Team. 

    * Joint committee for events. 

* NDOCH: Ronald, Deep, and Ellie will lead. Ellie will spec the theme and scope by Friday 15 May. 

* Phil: 

* Tony: supports a joint committee: better coordination among exec functions. 

## Future

Future topics - bike rack

* Volunteer vs. Member - Ronald 

* Ronald - Exercise on why positional power scares us 

* Tony - convo on process and execution 

* Spike - Open Budget after-action-report

* NDOCH - 

* Deep to help Spike on organization docs

Admin - reschedule the exec mtg to be twice monthly, 1 hour, 2nd and 4th Tuesdays, 8-9pm. Next meeting 26 May. 

Next facilitator: Tariq. 

Spike will put in a request to Mai Ling for the meeting. We will convene at a bar if nobody.  

