Meeting Agenda for OpenOakland Executive Team

## Meeting Date: June 23 2015

Location: HR4

Call in info: 

Materials: Agenda

Attending: Ronald, April, Deep, Tarik, Ellie, Phil, Neil, Tony, Bobby, Spike (f)

Absent: Tonya

## AGENDA

**Item 1: Check-In**

Time allotted: 5m

Owner: Spike

Outcome: Heads-up on where people are

**Next facilitator volunteer is: Deep Datta, notetaker: Bobby**

**Item 2: Workplan and task status reports from directors**

Time allotted: 10m

Owner:  Spike

Outcome: Clarity of the goals and progress of each teamâ€™s goals.

**Task Review: **

City Hall access blog/options

Space options

NDOCH followup

Web rebuild

Services Census

Events role.

New Exec process

Affliiations summit

**Decisions:** 

* No new decisions made, progress reviewed and clarifications provided.

**Item 3:** **New Project Feature/Support**

Time allotted: 5m

Owner: Spike/Ronald

Outcome: Agreement on steps to support, onboard recent projects (Parking, Measure-G etc)

**Decisions:** Held over.

**Item 4:** **Money Talk**

Time allotted: 30m

Owner: Spike

Outcome: Brainstorm budget needs, priorities

**Decisions:** Agreed on priority areas for fundraising: staff, collateral and leadership/member capacity building.

### Parking Lot items to be tabled at future meetings:

Ronald/projects - work deeper with Volunteer team on **Retention**

* Deep added to conversation of using Bridge Troll in place of Meetup.com

Deep- Have more of a discussion on the idea of using Bridge Troll

Ellie- Add to agenda for next exec meeting CITY CAMP



**Action items**

* Phil writing blog post for city space actions

* Ronald will craft a letter, send out a card to send out to all of the partner venues who supported our NDOCH

* Tarik set to connect with CfA & Mai Ling about DFD.

* Code for America to present next week on Digital Front Door project.

