##Meeting Agenda for OpenOakland Executive Team##

Meeting Date: June 9 2015

Location: HR3

Call in info: 

Materials: Agenda

Attending: Bobby, Phil, Ellie, Tony, Neil, Tarik, Spike (facilitator, notes), Howard (guest)

## AGENDA

**Item 1:** **Check-In**

Time allotted: 5m

Owner: Spike

Outcome: Heads-up on where people are

**Item 2: Workplan and status reports from directors**

Time allotted: 15m

Owner:  Spike

Outcome: Clarity of the goals and progress of each team’s goals.

Decisions: 

* Deep, Ellie to work on simple stats from Eventbrite- Spike to check social media stats.

**Item 3:** **City Hall access**

Time allotted: 5m

Owner: Spike

Outcome: Decision on course of action related to city hall security measures

Decisions: 
*Draft blog post on access issues - unanimous decision
*Draft further action proposals - unanimous decision

**Item 4:** **NDOCH Outcomes**

Time allotted: 10m

Owner: Ellie

Outcome: Review and decisions on actions or next steps based on NDOCH debrief

Decisions: 
*Draft blog post review (Ellie, Phil)
*Draft and field attendee survey (Spike, Tony)
*Draft process for onboarding new exec members: (Spike, Ellie)

**Item 5:** **Events management**

Time allotted: 20m

Owner: Spike, Ellie

Outcome: Agreement on how we will coordinate and manage events.

Decisions: 
*Create new Events Director role - unanimous
*Draft job description: Phil, Bobby
*Review job description: Spike, Howard
<br />  
 
 
**Item 6: Quick hits**

Time allotted: 5m

Owner: Spike

Outcome: Commitment from persons/groups to work on the following items:

* Find location(s) viable for alternate hack nights - emergency options (Bobby)

* Find other locations across town suitable for roving hack nights. (Howard, Phil)

* Scope and find suitable spaces for permanent hack night meetups (TBD)

* Team to start planning for website rebuild- requires heavy integration of whole exec! (Tarik, Spike, Andrea + marketing)

* Review Digital Services Census and bring feedback, thoughts to next exec: [https://service-census.herokuapp.com/place/oak](https://service-census.herokuapp.com/place/oak) (Tarik, Andrea?)

* Next mtg facilitator 

 

### Decisions: 



## RAW NOTES

**Team Check In**

**Bobby:** Workplan submitted, needs review. Reflecting on prior meeting ideas - building mechanism for sustainability of roles.

**Phil:** Logo rollout- blog posts of our rollout and Jeff’s. Apps need rollout still. 

Will develop an event marketing plan next.  

Template for marketing events.  

Gathering list of places we can share event info.

Need to ensure we install GAnalytics on all sites- even minisites.

* Deep, Ellie to work on simple stats from Eventbrite- Spike to check social media stats.

Event site strategy - do we use eventbrite, websites, meetup?

* Ask Cris and Andrea Moed to review event site decisions.

Tony - need to pick the right tool for events, not use a multiplicity.

**Ellie/Tony**: focus on NDOCH, workplan is solid, getting adjusted.  Doing a debrief on Living Cities this week. Planning to setup more regular team meetings. 

**Neil/Tarik**: No workplan done yet.  Tarik learning Rails.  Wants coding schools in Oakland?  Working on legend for project flow, user.  Will try to meet and work on workplan.

When is next retreat? Need budget?

**City hall access:**

Tony - not a personal concern. Ellie: mixed feelings. 

Tarik: make notices on Meetup page about new practices.

Tony- what about people who will not attend?

It’s an issue for African American/Latino people feeling welcome to hack nights- if we care about inclusive org.

Phil: Need to stand up to values, principle.  We don’t feel unsafe.

Bobby: what are our options.

Blog/oped = unanimous. Spike draft.

Take more of a stand on moving locations: unanimous. Phil start ideas.

**NDOCH**

Ellie: more time!

Lots of new people attending.

Solid geographic representation.

51+ attendees

* Blog post about outcomes/impact? Phil, Ellie

Will report back to CfA. 

Spike to do budget/expense report.

* Follow up survey- Tony, Spike

RSVP list meant very little.

People coming new as they couldn’t come Tuesdays.

**Events**

Tony - events are hugely consuming. Needs a lead person. Would be too hard a role to sustain.

Bobby: that applies to other roles also.  Committee people would be already holding roles/work.

Tony: event lead can be anyone with support from a committee of exec roles. Need templates, replicable processes.

Spike- we have partial templates.

Tarik - an exec lead person will focus more on events- much gains, better processes.

Howard - a key role is a huge commitment, lots to ask from a non-exec role.

Phil: have two people in exec responsible for events.

Bobby: neither Bobby nor Tonya would have joined if events were their primary role.  We erode values and relational capital when we don’t partner well.  Would welcome working with an event person/team.

Tarik - we’re pretty ambitious- but light on people capacity.

Committee: 0

Committee plus one outside exec person: 0

Create new roles for exec: 7 votes.

* Phil and Bobby to draft job description. Spike, Howard to review.

* Process to intake new exec members: Spike, Ellie

* Find location(s) viable for alternate hack nights - emergency options (Bobby)

* Find other locations across town suitable for roving hack nights. (Howard, Phil)

* Scope and find suitable spaces for permanent hack night meetups (noone yet)

* Team to start planning for website rebuild- requires heavy integration of whole exec! Marketing +?  (Tarik, Spike, Andrea?)

* Review Digital Services Census and bring feedback, thoughts to next exec: [https://service-census.herokuapp.com/place/oak](https://service-census.herokuapp.com/place/oak)  (Tarik+Andrea)

