

# Meeting Agenda for
# OpenOakland Executive Team

## Meeting Date: March 10 2015, 7:00pm - 9:00 pm

Location: City Hall Hearing Room 4

Call in info: (712) 775-7031 Code: 809-543-808 (Host PIN: 6336)

Materials:

## AGENDA

**Item 1** : Intro, check-ins

**Time allotted:** 15m

**Owner:** All

**Outcome:**  Quick check-in

- Retreat times reviewed- doodle, emails setup

Attending:

- Spike, Eddie, Phil, Deep, Ronald, Tony, Bobby, Tarik, Tonya, Ellie, April, Neil 



**Item 2** : Goals review

**Time allotted:** 20m

**Owner:** Ellie

**Outcome:**

- Review [goals each team listed at retreat](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qrx2uRKc6PKe5tZk6yDzLGzS33TthJaoFNR8729yR8w/edit#heading=h.dwvwlcklu9gq) (copied below) 
- Select a couple of clear goals and assign people to complete them

_Decision: Each team to review their own goals, identify key ones and set out a plan and approach- including what support they will need to achieve these goals._

_Spike to share draft plan and goals and to provide initial goals the next meeting or prior._

**Item 3** : Gradients of Agreement review - decision making primer

**Time allotted:** 10m

**Owner:** Spike

**Outcome:** Team is familiar with how gradients of agreement works, initial parameters on when to use this method versus simple polling.

**Materials:** [Detailed process](https://drive.google.com/a/openoakland.org/file/d/0B5QI2AvZLEgqUzYzdUYyNExZLVE/view?usp=sharing), [Simpler Process](https://drive.google.com/a/openoakland.org/file/d/0B5QI2AvZLEgqc09Md0FVVlhSUDQ/view?usp=sharing)

_Decision: Will be incorporated into Charter, and used as needed till formal process drafted._

**Item 4** : Agenda building & Exec team support process

**Time allotted:** 15m

**Owner:** Spike

**Outcome:**

- Agreement on a new process to submit and have agenda items prioritized.
- List of new agenda items to schedule ( [Trello board](https://trello.com/b/MYzLeWeK/exec-agenda-items))
- Google doc for simple updates each 2-weeks: needs, decisions etc

_Decision: We will use google docs to manage agendas, future items. Leaders will rotate in building the agendas with Spike each month.  Spike to maintain master list on Trello. _

_Ronald and Deep to help prepare next month's agenda. _

**Item 5** : OUSD Partnership

**Time allotted:** 20m

**Owner:** Spike

**Outcome:** Briefing on MOUs for OUSD on RecordTrac, OpenData and Answers.

**Materials:** MOU Drafts to be shared as soon as ready for review - Cris Cristina, Spike, Ellie

_No decision, just an initial discussion of the projects._

**Item 6** : Business cards, collateral

**Time allotted:** 10m

**Owner:** Spike

**Outcome:** Decide on content of business cards, other collateral desired.

[Draft content items](https://docs.google.com/a/openoakland.org/document/d/1i2cVd1sN936WlhJto8P1u5QT32KRFX0VojjekkcSEfg/edit?usp=sharing)

_Decision: Spike to ask Jeff about possible design ideas for generic, non-named cards? Email aliases_

**Item 7** : Charter development

**Time allotted:** 10m

**Owner:** Spike

**Outcome:** Agree on committee to begin drafting charter.

_Decision: Committee formed to start charter development: Ellie, Tony, Deep._

_Ronald, Ellie to approach other execs who have built new orgs to provide help._

_Spike to request pro bono legal help for charter dev._

**Item 8** : Year calendar review (HELD OVER FOR NEXT MEETING)

**Time allotted:** 15m

**Owner:** Spike

**Outcome:** Review likely annual calendar for 2015, make initial commitments to certain events.

**Materials:** [Calendar](https://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=openoakland.org_6nvlc6q07fsrjnugq9srqh1j2o%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/Los_Angeles)  (NDOCH, CityCamp, Civic Tech Expo, Retreats, CodeAcross, CfA national summit, Open California Summit in San Francisco in April; city hall holidays that land on Tuesdays)



**Closing** - agree on next monthly meeting time.

### Parking Lot items to table for future meetings:



[**TRELLO BOARD OF AGENDA ITEMS**](https://trello.com/b/MYzLeWeK/exec-agenda-items)



**RAW NOTES**

Raw notes by Deep (Tuesday)

**       **

**Who is here (03/10/2015):**

Tarik

Spike

Ronald

Howard

Phil

Eddie

Ellie

Neil

Glen

Bobby

April

Tanya

Tony

**\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**



**> Spike is going to come up with "gradients of agreement" a decision approach. He is going to go over this quickly (there's tons of resources about this and he has sent the leadership team two emails with information). He is going to go over the brief version and provide it openly.**

**"Gradients of Agreement"**

is how we deal with major decisions. If it's something that has staff implications, financial implications, or something that really affects the direction or idea, he is going to make the call on when to use gradients of agreement. This allows community groups to give everyone in the group a voice. It forces people to be honest on where they land on something and provides a space for people to talk about those concerns. When it comes to a decisions, it's important that we know when a decision can be called.

Example: If we get to the point where we need to discuss us partnering with an organization, we will go over all the points,and whoever is leading the discussion will make the call WHEN we make the final decision about the partnership.

We will use a 1,2,3,4,5 scale from WHOLE HEARTED SUPPORT to DISAGREE/VETO. The leader will call the decision if there is strong support one way or another. If the points are all over the place, we ask those leaders to discuss the issue openly. Ideally, we can weigh the perspectives to move towards a place of agreement and then do a quick poll. There is a time element, but we'll use this tool when there is something really important to make. Most organizations have Veto power somewhere. Sometimes the "CEO" or leader will have to make a call on something, so there is a reality on time limit, but that it's important that everyone has the ability to make decisions. It's not a straight consensus method, there will be debate, but at one point, the leader will make a decision (this is an interest of time for our group).

Tanya has been a "1" in a Jury decision and that it was very stressful because of the importance of the decision. We should be mindful of the stress we put on the fellow members when someone strongly does not agree.

Spike notes that we should never put pressure on the person to come around. Disagreement is ok! You have the right, we need to be reasonable and respectful. The charter needs to be clear about when we introduce this method. Amendments and compromises can be presented and sometimes those become the decisions.

**Agenda building & Exec team support process**


We need to come up with a method for coming up with what is important each time we meet and which communication is important. We need to make sure we have space in our agendas about how we communicate.**

We have a Trello Board (just a starting point) for what needs to be touched by the Executive Team. What do you think of that and what are other approaches for us to build an agenda?

Deep - so many projects, not always clear on what channels to check - priority areas? How do we understand priorities?

**        Clear on expectations for tasks.**

At a minimum, anyone should be able to post an agenda item, but we need to make sure we can refine and prioritize agenda items. Should we use Trello? Tanya is wondering if we can choose something that we know will work, and not worry about switching it up in 6 months.

Ronald says these meetings have the potential to be fun! He is saying this very strategically. He is noticing that there is a bit of heaviness in the way we have organized the meetings, but it may not be necessary. Let's take some of what we learned, adopt the good, and throw out the rest. How does that translate to agendas? We are a small enough group where we can share facilitation skills and rotate, we can ask who would like to facilitate the next meeting. We need to pick tool. We should leave space for deeper dives for certain items. Let's hold these things ligther than we have.

April is not familiar with the on-boarding or off-boarding of tools. Let's be mindful and not move things up and down. Secondly, how to built the agenda, let's normalcy around. Maybe some broad buckets that stay the same so everyone's agenda items fills the buckets.

Eddie uses Asana, Pipe-Drive, Trello, Slack, HipChat, 3+ email, text messaging, Google Voice Number...the more that I have gotten a handle of, I keep on going back to Google Docs and spreadsheets. Everything else seems heavy now. The tool doesn't really matter. I could do away with all the tools. Get rid of tools.

Bobby is less concerned with how we make amendments of the agenda, let's keep it light. How we move through the meeting shouldn't feel super formal. He thinks we've gotten way too far into the meeting without Ground Rules. He'd like to bring up some of this discussion. Setting expectations and holding ourselves accountable to how these meetings go. How do you make your voice heard in a meeting.

Part of what is slowing us down is preparing for an argument. He thinks we have a decent amount of respect to understand how to speak. He thinks we should focus on our long-lasting goals.

Deep - as a non-tech group - stick to gdocs as much as possible. Use other tools for projects.

Phil - is it so broken?

Bobby - nope, should be group process to establish ground rules.

Phil - trello=post-its, I want to get decisions based on pre-work, for these meetings. Exec mtgs are not enough time to do much.

Tony - use gdocs for agenda, different teams work with Spike to form the agenda each meeting.

Ellie would like to recommend a Google Doc that lays out Ground rules for the next meeting. She would like to underscore that it's important. It's a way to build some inclusion in a meeting with a new team.

We have decided that we build things in Google Docs to start and we'll go from there to decide what might work best if Google Docs does not cover.

# How we want to talk with each other

We kicked things off by talking about talking. Biggest takeaway: Tarik's "Challenge yourself to ask hard questions."





**Spike will talk about the ground rules we raised at the retreat.**

- -- **Step up and step back. Step up, but don't speak forever** 
- -- **Ask hard questions** 
- -- **Not everyone is in tech, let's not focus only on tech speak** 
- -- **Your way is not the only way** 
- -- **No labels** 
- -- **Positive reinforcement, find the people doing good things, focus there** 
- -- **Be mindful of the space, how much space you take up** 
- -- **Embrace what you know, use "I" statements, express your opinions as "I"** 
- -- **Challenge hierarchical assumptions, all skills matter** 
- -- **Be aware of volunteers can bring to the table** 
- -- **Benefit of doubt** 
- -- **Nobody gets to be wrong** 
- -- **How we socialize new volunteers** 
- -- **Use the best language you have** 
- -- **Be open to questions** 
- -- **Be mindful of time** 
- -- **One person ("diva"), one mic** 
- -- **Raising hands to get heard, whoever is leading the meeting is in charge of keeping stack (tracking who is in the queue, let's keep track of the order of hands)**

Bobby, April, Ellie, and Ronald will put together the Ground Rules and we'll start off with those on the next meeting

Ronald wants to make sure we build in feedback into our agenda items and ground rules.

Spike introduced the OUSD project, but noted that it is not ready for primetime. They want Oakland Answers for the School District. When we get the MOU for the first two pieces, he will share them with us, and we will meet to come to organizational decision about them. Phil brought up that we need to discuss which part of our strategic goal goes towards helping OUSD?

Tonya wants to make sure we have a process in place for future Partnership ideas like this.

Discussion for this specific project will be tabled for the next meeting.

OpenOakland business cards - maybe have a generic card. We can use email aliases. Dealing with longevity issues. It would be great to ask Jeff what he would do to create a generic-ish template.

Spike says that we need a few people to commit to working on a Charter for the group. What is membership / What is executive? How do we function. Tony says we should table the Charter discussion for the next retreat.

Tarik would like a strong goals and strategy discussion, that way we can talk about actionable goals.

Ronald would like to propose that instead of us taking on all these tasks, we could seek pro-bono support for how to create a charter. That we don't have to recreate the wheel. Ellie can approach people about this.

Ellie would like a few specific themes to talk about before we bring up the structure of the Charter. Tony says we can look online for examples as well.

Tony, Ellie, and Deep - Charter work

**Closing thoughts:**

- -- We spent over half of our time on meta stuff, we could have talked more about our purpose and strategy. I'm really interested in substances. Let's do meta outside of the meeting. 
- -- April thought this was a great meeting, it was a great pickup from the retreat. The next retreat or meeting will be even better, and when you have a group, you have to have to the hard conversations. 
- -- Let's go less meta
- -- First meeting, was messy, is ok. 
- --

**Ronald, Deep to help on next agenda.**

- --

**Next meeting: April 14th.**

